	

Software Engineering and its applications

	Software engineering is a topic within computer science that attracts me in a very peculiar way, since it is an area that is in very high demand these days. Software engineering is present in every area of our society, since wherever we go, technology and software help us manage our professional and even personal tasks. More than that, it is a topic that matches my profile, since I have always considered myself someone who was attracted to technology and learning, and managing how it works. It blends the general human necessities and the advancement of technology with the proper management, aiming for maximum efficiency in every aspect of our lives. By becoming a software engineer, you learn how to work and act through the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), where you project the architecture of software and systems based on your computer science and math knowledge, using programming languages such as Python, Java, and JavaScript to assist your projects, united by tools like Git, Docker, and CI/CD pipelines. Moreover, software engineers also learn methodologies to improve the guidelines of their projects. Two examples of these methodologies are Agile and Scrum, which consist of breaking a big project into small tasks while interacting with the group and organizing each one's function, aiming to speed up the process and reach the best efficiency on it.
	Going more into the topic, software engineers can also specialize in different roles, including frontend (building user interfaces with Angular or React), backend (managing servers and databases), full-stack development, and DevOps (using platforms like AWS). In all of these specialties, they face challenges of security,  performance, and scalability, providing the best version and balance of these 3 for the best result for users. Also, software engineers are constantly adapting themselves to the evolution of technology, with great examples being the quick rise of AI, cloud computing, and Web3, which have been revolutionizing the concept of operating systems, programs, and applications. These new features are making software engineers collaborate across teams to solve new problems and powering all programs from simple mobile programs to global enterprise systems.